{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red180\green36\blue25;\red47\green180\blue29;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c70588\c14118\c9804;\csgenericrgb\c18431\c70588\c11373;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15300\viewh10100\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  README v1 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ \
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
This UFO file contains an implementation of the SM plus Axion-like Particle (ALP) extension described in arXiv:2012.12272, obtained from Andrea Thamm. The UFO implementation can be used with MadGraph5_aMC@NLO available at https://launchpad.net/mg5amcnlo.\
This UFO file is build based on the SM.fr file. All ALP couplings have the coupling order NP=1.\
\
Please move the ALP folder in the mg5 models directory!\
\
The additional parameters in the param_card.dat are:\
\
cuu = The ALP coupling to up quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{ff\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
cdd = The ALP coupling to down quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
ccc = The ALP coupling to charm quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
css = The ALP coupling to strange quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
ctt = The ALP coupling to top quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
cbb = The ALP coupling to bottom quarks. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
cee = The ALP coupling to electrons. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
cmumu = The ALP coupling to electrons. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
ctautau = The ALP coupling to electrons. This coupling is called $c_\{gg\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (61) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
cah = Coupling of the SM Higgs to 2 ALPs. This coupling is called $C_\{ah\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (50) in arXiv:1708.00443. The default value is 0.\
\
cZh5 = Coupling of the SM Higgs to an ALP and a Z boson. This coupling is called $C_\{Zh\}^\{eff\}$ in equation (4) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 0.\
\
cYY = Coupling of the ALP to hypercharge gauge bosons. This coupling is called $C_\{BB\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1. See equation (8) in arXiv:1708.00443 for the ALP-photon coupling.\
\
cWW = Coupling of the ALP to W gauge bosons. This coupling is called $C_\{WW\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1. See equation (8) in arXiv:1708.00443 for the ALP-photon coupling.\
\
cGG= Coupling of the ALP to gluons. This coupling is called $C_\{GG\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1.\
\
Ma= ALP mass. This coupling is called $m_\{a,0\}$ in equation (1) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1 GeV.\
\
WALP= Total width of the ALP. If set to Auto the total and partial decay widths are calculated by MadGraph. The default value is 1 GeV.\
\
falp = Suppression scale in the effective operators coupling the ALP to SM particles, called $\\Lambda$ in equation (1) in arXiv:2012.12272. The default value is 1000 GeV.\
\
\
\
CAUTION: All NP couplings are set to 1 per default and the ALP width is 1 GeV. For any process, please adjust the values and write \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 Do you want to edit a card (press enter to bypass editing)?\
/------------------------------------------------------------\\\
|  \cf2 1\cf0 . param : \cf3 param_card.dat\cf0                                  |\
|  \cf2 2\cf0 . run   : \cf3 run_card.dat\cf0                                    |\
\\------------------------------------------------------------/\
 you can also\
   - enter the path to a valid card or banner.\
   - use the 'set' command to modify a parameter directly.\
     The set option works only for param_card and run_card.\
     Type 'help set' for more information on this command.\
   - call an external program (ASperGE/MadWidth/...).\
     Type 'help' for the list of available command\
 [\ul 0\ulnone , done, 1, param, 2, run, enter path] \
>set WALP auto\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1  \
to enable automatic calculation of the ALP width for the required couplings. The Higgs and Z widths are automatically adjusted after the ALP mass and couplings are set.\
\
In case of any questions etc. please write to one of the authors of arXiv:1708.00443:\
\
martin.m.bauer@durham.ac.uk\
\
matthias.neubert@uni-mainz.de\
\
srenner@sissa.it\
\
andrea.thamm@unimelb.edu.au\
\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  SYNTAX +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  \
\
In the following, we give the MadGraph syntax used to generate the exotic Z and Higgs decays described in sections 6.1 (Z > a ALP), 5.1 (h > ALP Z), 5.2 (h > ALP ALP) in arXiv:1708.00443.\
\
\
The Z to ALP and photon decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > Z, (Z > a ALP, (ALP > a a))
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
The h to ALP and Z decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons and Z decay into electrons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > h, (h > ALP Z, ( ALP > a a ) , ( Z > e+ e- ) )
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The h to 2ALP decay with subsequent ALP decay into photons and muons can be generated with \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> 
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 import model ALP\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 MG5_aMC> generate p p > h, (h > ALP ALP, ( ALP > a a ) , ( ALP > mu+ mu- ) )}